[all hosts] (Add-in Commands) Merge Outlook and WXP add-in commands articles (#3907)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/develop/create-addin-commands.md

## Sample commands

All the task pane add-ins created by [yo office](yeoman-generator-overview.md) have add-in commands. They contain an add-in command (button) to show the task pane. Generate these projects by following one of the quick starts, such as [Build an Excel task pane add-in](../quickstarts/excel-quickstart-jquery.md). Ensure that you have read [Add-in commands](../design/add-in-commands.md) to understand command capabilities.

## Important parts of an add-in command

The following steps explain how to add add-in commands to an existing add-in. These steps assume you're using an XML manifest. If you're working with the JSON-based Teams manifest, see [Add-in commands in a Teams Manifest for Outlook Add-ins (developer preview)](#add-in-commands-in-a-teams-manifest-for-outlook-add-ins-developer-preview).

### Step 1: Add VersionOverrides element

> The [**\<VersionOverrides\>** element](/javascript/api/manifest/versionoverrides) is the root element that contains the definition of your add-in command. Details on the valid attributes and implications are found the [Version overrides in the manifest](add-in-manifests.md?tabs=tabid-1#version-overrides-in-the-manifest).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [**\<VersionOverrides\>** element](/javascript/api/manifest/versionoverrides) is the root element that contains the definition of your add-in command. Details on the valid attributes and implications are found in [Version overrides in the manifest](add-in-manifests.md?tabs=tabid-1#version-overrides-in-the-manifest).
```

```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Office.js must be initialized before the add-in command logic runs. See [Initialize your Office Add-in](initialize-add-in.md) for more information.

> The following code shows an example function used by **\<FunctionName\>**. Note the call to **event.completed**, This signals that you have successfully handled the event. When a function is called multiple times, such as multiple clicks on the same add-in command, all events are automatically queued. The first event runs automatically, while the other events remain on the queue. When your function calls **event.completed**, the next queued call to that function runs. You must implement **event.completed**, otherwise your function will not run.

Author: Should event.completed be in code ticks or something?

> The following code shows an example function used by **\<FunctionName\>**. Note the call to **event.completed**, This signals that you have successfully handled the event. When a function is called multiple times, such as multiple clicks on the same add-in command, all events are automatically queued. The first event runs automatically, while the other events remain on the queue. When your function calls **event.completed**, the next queued call to that function runs. You must implement **event.completed**, otherwise your function will not run.

Reviewer 2: Good catch. I think it would read better with code ticks.

```js
// Initialize the Office Add-in.
Office.onReady(() => {
  // If needed, Office.js is ready to be called
});

// The command function.
async function highlightSelection(event) {

    // Implement your custom code here. The following code is a simple Excel example.  
    try {
          await Excel.run(async (context) => {
              const range = context.workbook.getSelectedRange();
              range.format.fill.color = "yellow";
              await context.sync();
          });
      } catch (error) {
          // Note: In a production add-in, you'd want to notify the user through your add-in's UI.
          console.error(error);
      }

    // Calling event.completed is required. event.completed lets the platform know that processing has completed.
    event.completed();
}

// You must register the function with the following line.
Office.actions.associate("highlightSelection", highlightSelection);

> ```

Reviewer 2: Should this sample code be moved to 'Button controls' in Step 5 since the \<FunctionName> element is referenced there? If it's moved, consider changing the \<FunctionName> element value of that section's manifest sample to `highlightSelection`.

Author: Good call.

#### Outlook notifications

When an add-in needs to provide status updates, such as progress indicators or error messages, it must do so through the [notification APIs](/javascript/api/outlook/office.notificationmessages). The processing for the notifications must also be defined in a separate HTML file that is specified in the `FunctionFile` node of the manifest.

### Step 4: Add ExtensionPoint elements

The [**\<ExtensionPoint\>** element](/javascript/api/manifest/extensionpoint) defines where add-in commands should appear in the Office UI. You can define **\<ExtensionPoint\>** elements with these **xsi:type** values.

- **PrimaryCommandSurface**: The ribbon in Office.

> - **ContextMenu**: The shortcut menu that appears when you right-click in the Office UI.

Reviewer 2: These values only apply to Excel, OneNote, PowerPoint, and Word. Outlook extension points are listed in [Extension points for Outlook](https://learn.microsoft.com/javascript/api/manifest/extensionpoint#extension-points-for-outlook). Consider linking to the article for product-specific values.

Author: Good catch. I'll remove the text and let that ExtensionPoint link do the heavy lifting.

</Control>
```

> The following code shows an example function used by **\<FunctionName\>**. Note the call to [`event.completed`](/javascript/api/office/office.addincommands.event#office-office-addincommands-event-completed-member(1)), This signals that you have successfully handled the event. When a function is called multiple times, such as multiple clicks on the same add-in command, all events are automatically queued. The first event runs automatically, while the other events remain on the queue. When your function calls `event.completed`, the next queued call to that function runs. You must implement `event.completed`, otherwise your function won't run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code shows an example function used by **\<FunctionName\>**. Note the call to [`event.completed`](/javascript/api/office/office.addincommands.event#office-office-addincommands-event-completed-member(1)). This signals that you've successfully handled the event. When a function is called multiple times, such as multiple clicks on the same add-in command, all events are automatically queued. The first event runs automatically, while the other events remain on the queue. When your function calls `event.completed`, the next queued call to that function runs. You must implement `event.completed`, otherwise your function won't run.
```

```js
// Initialize the Office Add-in.
Office.onReady(() => {
  // If needed, Office.js is ready to be called
});

// The command function.
async function highlightSelection(event) {

    // Implement your custom code here. The following code is a simple Excel example.  
    try {
          await Excel.run(async (context) => {
              const range = context.workbook.getSelectedRange();
              range.format.fill.color = "yellow";
              await context.sync();
          });
      } catch (error) {

>           // Note: In a production add-in, you'd want to notify the user through your add-in's UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          // Note: In a production add-in, notify the user through your add-in's UI.
```

</Resources>
```

> [!NOTE]
> You must use Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) for all URLs in the **\<Image\>** and **\<Url\>** elements.

> ## Add-in commands in a Teams Manifest for Outlook Add-ins (developer preview)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add-in commands in a Teams manifest for Outlook add-ins (developer preview)
```

Add-in commands are declared with the "extensions.runtimes" and "extensions.ribbons" properties. These properties specify many things for the add-in, such as the application, types of controls to add to the ribbon, the text, the icons, and any associated functions.

> When an add-in needs to provide status updates, such as progress indicators or error messages, it must do so through the [notification APIs](/javascript/api/outlook/office.notificationmessages). The processing for the notifications must also be defined in a separate HTML file that is specified in the "runtimes.code.page" property of the manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an add-in needs to provide status updates, such as progress indicators or error messages, it uses the [notification APIs](/javascript/api/outlook/office.notificationmessages). The processing for the notifications must also be defined in a separate HTML file that is specified in the "runtimes.code.page" property of the manifest.
```

> Learn more about how to use a Teams manifest in the article [Teams manifest in Office Add-ins (preview)](json-manifest-overview.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about how to use a Teams manifest, see [Teams manifest in Office Add-ins (preview)](json-manifest-overview.md).
```

</Resources>
```

> [!NOTE]
> You must use Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) for all URLs in the **\<Image\>** and **\<Url\>** elements.

## Add-in commands in a Teams Manifest (developer preview)

Add-in commands are declared with the "extensions.runtimes" and "extensions.ribbons" properties. These properties specify many things for the add-in, such as the application, types of controls to add to the ribbon, the text, the icons, and any associated functions.

> When an add-in needs to provide status updates, such as progress indicators or error messages, it must do so through the [notification APIs](/javascript/api/outlook/office.notificationmessages). The processing for the notifications must also be defined in a separate HTML file that is specified in the "runtimes.code.page" property of the manifest.

Reviewer 3: This section needs to make clear that the JSON manifest is only supported in Outlook. Also, we should link to https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/office/dev/add-ins/develop/json-manifest-overview

</Resources>
```

> [!NOTE]
> You must use Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) for all URLs in the **\<Image\>** and **\<Url\>** elements.

## Add-in commands in a Teams Manifest for Outlook Add-ins (developer preview)

Add-in commands are declared with the "extensions.runtimes" and "extensions.ribbons" properties. These properties specify many things for the add-in, such as the application, types of controls to add to the ribbon, the text, the icons, and any associated functions.

When an add-in needs to provide status updates, such as progress indicators or error messages, it must do so through the [notification APIs](/javascript/api/outlook/office.notificationmessages). The processing for the notifications must also be defined in a separate HTML file that is specified in the "runtimes.code.page" property of the manifest.

Learn more about how to use a Teams manifest in the article [Teams manifest in Office Add-ins (preview)](json-manifest-overview.md).

## Outlook support notes

> Add-in commands are available only in Outlook 2013 or later on Windows, Outlook 2016 or later on Mac, Outlook on iOS, Outlook on Android, Outlook on the web for Exchange 2016 or later, and Outlook on the web for Microsoft 365 and Outlook.com.

Reviewer 2: Consider using a bulleted list for better readability.
